---
layout: blog
topic: "02"
short-topic: Happy git and GitHub
due-date: 2022-02-03
root: ../../
---

## Prompt:

git and Github are tools for helping with versioning of files in collaborative efforts as well as archiving entries for your future self. 
Unfortunately working with git isn't always completely straightforward. 
Jenny Bryan's book "Happy git and github with R" helps with that. The book is available from [http://happygitwithr.com/](http://happygitwithr.com/). Have a look over the index and pick one of the chapters for a more in-depth read.

Write a blog post answering the following questions: 

1. **Write a short (100-150 words) summary of the chapter you read in-depth.**
 I read Chapter 9 on "Personal access token for HTTPS" in detail. When I tried to setup my Git account from RStudio using the package "usethis", I got an error about authentication failed. I was asked to use Personal Access Token (PAT) instead of password as authentication credential. In this chapter, I got to know that PAT is a better way to let Git server know about a specific user. PAT can be generated by logging in the Git account, following the setting or by writing a command from R console using "usethis" package. Once the token is generated, few things need to be taken care of, like writing a meaningful note for the token, checking the scopes and expiration date of the token. The default expiration date for a token is 30 days but one can customize that. Once the token is expired, another PAT can be generated and used for authentication. In R, gitcreds::gitcreds_set() commands from the "gitcreds" package can be used to set up the PAT as Git credential. Another R package that can be used for the same purpose is called "credentials". 
 
3. **Looking back at all of the team projects you have been involved in, describe the biggest mishap you had. Could that have been avoided using git? How?**.
 In my previous team projects, it was very difficult to divide the work in a way that everyone can work on separetae task. In most cases, one team member could declare and use variables for one purpose but another team member will assign different values to them. Also, emailing code was not helpful at all. We had to merge the update manually and sometime it gave us error while compiling the code. To avoid more problems, we decided to meet at a placeand work on the project. That was tricky because of our busy schedule and it slowed down the progress.
 I think all of these could have been solved by using Git. Git is very helpful tool for collebrative works, all members in the team can work on the same project locally and push the update. Git will merge those files and conflicts can be resolved as well.
5. **Give an example of one new git feature that you learned about from Jenny Bryan's book.**.
 The new feature that I learned from Jenny Bryan's book is about using Fork to get a copy of someone else's(in my case the Stat585-at-ISU's repository) repository in my GitHub account. I edited  my work in that repository from my account and send a pull request to our Stat585-at-ISU repository owner. When she accepts, the update can be reflected in the OWNER's repository. 
